---
layout: parsec
title: "Let's clone a game"
date: 2020-02-15 09:00:00 +0100
categories: parsec
---

## Let's clone a game

I've always wanted to make a game from scratch, just for the fun of it. I don't
have any good ideas for a new one, so I'm going to make a clone/tribute instead.
The game I've chosen is a bit obscure to most people, as it is from the old
[Texas Instrument TI99/4A](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Texas_Instruments_TI-99/4A)
computer. This was the first computer I ever used, back when I was just 6-7
years old. I have fond memories of sitting with my father, typing in Basic
commands that I barely understood the meaning of, to create small visual effects
on the screen.

{% include figure.html file="/static/images/parsec/ti994a.jpg" caption="The TI 99/4A" %}

The TI 99/4A had a cartridge slot for games and applications, and we had two
games with our machine: "TI Invaders" - A quite well made Space invaders clone,
and "TI Parsec" - a side scrolling space shoot-em-up. This is the game I'll be
cloning.

{% include figure.html file="/static/images/parsec/screen1.jpg" caption="TI Parsec, the original" %}

Those who want to experience the "real" thing can try out the
[Classic99](http://www.harmlesslion.com/cgi-bin/showprog.cgi?search=Classic99)
emulator, which includes the Parsec ROM under license from Texas Instruments. My
version will deviate some from the original, this is a clone, not a
reimplementation.

## Quick tech overview

Quick look at the technology being used.

### Language

I've chosen to write the game in Typescript. There are two reasons for this.

1. Typescript is my main programming language at work these days, and this is an
   opportunity to get better at it, and try out new features of the language. I
   also really like the extensions it brings to javascript coding, even though
   many of these are now native in ES6.
2. I want the game to run in a browser, which means the resulting output will
   need to be Javascript.

### Libraries/frameworks used

Since I wanted to make this from scratch, I've so far skipped on using any
libraries at all. This also helps keep the final code size to a minimum. I'll
need some sort of javascript bundler to bundle up the final code. While
[Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/) is most familiar to me, I am planning on
using [Parcel](https://parceljs.org/) instead here, as the project is small
enough to not need the advanced features of Webpack.

The game renders to a normal HTML canvas. Initially I'll be using plain 2D
canvas, but I'm considering 3D extensions too.

## The basics

For a web game to have somewhere to be seen, we need a containing HTML page.
This will be very simple:

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Parsec 2020</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="src/parsec2020.css" type="text/css" />
    <script src="src/parsec2020.ts"></script>
  </head>

  <body>
    <div id="content">
      <canvas id="parsec" width="100" height="100"></canvas>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
```

Yes, that's it. There's a wee bit of CSS, mostly to remove implicit padding in
the browser window. The rendering is done into the canvas named `parsec`. The
game code itself will be in the `parsec2020.ts` file.

### Bundling

The browser does not understand Typescript code very well, so we need a bundler
to fix this. Managing these things is best done with `npm` or one of it's
cousins, so it's time to create a `package.json`. Side effect of this is the
ability to add dependencies in the future if wanted.

```json
{
  "name": "parsec2020",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "description": "Space shootemup inspired by TI Parsec",
  "main": "index.html",
  "scripts": {
    "start": "parcel index.html",
    "build": "parcel build index.html",
    "test": "echo \"Error: no test specified\" && exit 1"
  },
  "author": "Frank Oppervoll-Larsen",
  "license": "ISC",
  "devDependencies": {
    "parcel-bundler": "^1.12.4",
    "typescript": "^3.6.4"
  }
}
```

This defines our two dependencies so far, _Parcel_ and _Typescript_. Both are
`devDependencies` and will not be included in the generated game files.

## The main loop

To finish this introductory post with some code, let's set up the games main
loop. A game is typically rendered at 60 frames per second to ensure smooth
animations. In the olden days, the game would animate using the screen redraw
cycle, but today we'll use built in browser functionality for this.

In the main loop we also make sure the canvas fills the entire browser window,
and sets a transformation for a 640x480 pixel rendering area. This might not be
the most efficient way of transforming this, but it's likely enough for this
game.

```typescript
let lastTimestamp = 0;

function main(timestamp: number) {
  const delta = timestamp - lastTimestamp;
  lastTimestamp = timestamp;

  // We'll need the canvas context for rendering.
  const canvas = <HTMLCanvasElement>document.getElementById("parsec");
  const context = canvas.getContext("2d", { alpha: false });

  // Fill the screen, always set the width, this trick clears the canvas
  canvas.width = document.body.clientWidth;
  if (canvas.height != document.documentElement.clientHeight) {
    canvas.height = document.documentElement.clientHeight;
  }

  // Set context transformation. This let us operate with a simpler 640x480
  // coordinate system.
  context.setTransform(canvas.width / 640, 0, 0, canvas.height / 480, 0, 0);

  // Update the game state...
  updateGameState(timestamp, delta);
  // ...then render the scene
  renderer(context);

  // Finally, request the next animation frame
  window.requestAnimationFrame(main);
}

// Start the main loop when we're done loading the page
window.onload = () => {
  window.requestAnimationFrame(main);
};
```

That's it for the main loop. On each invocation the current timestamp is passed,
which I'm using to calculate the current delta since the last render. This will
let us calculate position changes without assuming the 60fps clock is accurate.

Inside the `renderer` we can now add logic to render the actual scene. Let's
start with the background stars/space debris floating past. We also introduce
the `updateGameState` function, which tracks the movement of debris.

```typescript
let stars: { x: number; y: number; speed: number }[] = [];
function renderer(context: CanvasRenderingContext2D) {
  context.fillStyle = "#000000";
  context.fillRect(0, 0, 640, 480);

  context.fillStyle = "#cccccc";
  stars.forEach(star => context.fillRect(star.x, star.y, 2, 2));
}

function updateGameState(timestamp: number, delta: number) {
  if (stars.length === 0) {
    // Initial run, let's create some stars
    for (let i = 0; i < 100; i++) {
      stars.push({
        x: Math.random() * 640,
        y: Math.random() * 400,
        speed: Math.random() * -200
      });
    }
  }

  // Update the stars
  stars = stars.map(star => {
    const newX = star.x + (star.speed * delta) / 1000;
    return { ...star, x: newX > 0 ? newX : 640 };
  });
}
```

## Wrapping up

That is really all there is to it to make a simple animation loop. Next we'll
start adding some game logic, but that's for the next post.

### Footnote

I originally started writing this in 2017. 3 years to finish such a short post
must be some kind of record. The game itself has been stopped and restarted a
few times, including a misguided attempt at using `Redux` to hold the game
state. More on that when we get to the state.
